# [Masters thesis: Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) on K-nearest Neighbour (KNN) Algorithm For Attribute Reduction](https://github.com/fiqgant/Linear-Discriminant-Analysis-LDA-nn-K-nearest-Neighbour-KNN-Algorithm-For-Attribute-Reduction)

Classification algorithms mostly become problematic in data with high dimensions, in the form of a decrease in classification accuracy. One method that allows classification algorithms to work faster and effectively and improve the accuracy and performance of a classification algorithm is by dimensional reduction. In the process of classifying data with the K-Nearest Neighbor algorithm, it is possible to have features that do not have a match value in the classification, so there is a need for dimension reduction. In this study the dimension reduction method used is Linear Discriminant Analysis and classification process using KNN, then analyze its performance using Confusion Matrix. The datasets used in the study are Lymphography, Dermatology and PIMA Indians obtained from previous research and UCI Machine Learning Repository. Based on the results of this study is on the ddf the dimensions of the dataset was able to improve the performance of the K-Nearest Neighbor algorithm. Classification algorithms mostly become problematic in data with high dimensions, in the form of a decrease in classification accuracy. One method that allows classification algorithms to work faster and effectively and improve the accuracy and performance of a classification algorithm is by dimensional reduction. In the process of classifying data with the K-Nearest Neighbor algorithm, it is possible to have features that do not have a match value in the classification, so there is a need for dimension reduction. In this study the dimension reduction method used is Linear Discriminant Analysis and classification process using KNN, then analyze its performance using Confusion Matrix. The datasets used in the study are Lymphography, Dermatology and PIMA Indians obtained from previous research and UCI Machine Learning Repository. Based on the results of this study is on the dataset Lymphography the best accuracy obtained by KNN with K = 3 that has been reduced using LDA with an accuracy of 82.22%. In the Dermatology dataset, the accuracy of KNN after reducing the dimensions of the dataset with LDA also increased, in KNN with reduction has the same K = 3, K = 5 and K = 10 accuracy of 99.09%. While in the PIMA Indians dataset the best accuracy was obtained by K = 10 with an accuracy of 81.39%. From the results of the analysis obtained, Linear Discriminant Analysis proposed in reducing the dimensions of the dataset was able to improve the performance of the K-Nearest Neighbor algorithm. 

## Thesis url
[Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) nn K-nearest Neighbour (KNN) Algorithm For Attribute Reduction](https://repositori.usu.ac.id/bitstream/handle/123456789/47191/187038052.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y "Repositori USU")
